Dear Professor Chu,

I am a student in your "Natural Computation" module. After the lecture on Markov Chains I was still a bit unclear about certain things. I've been doing some research and as you suggested I did read the section on Markov chains in "introduction to modeling for biosciences" (pages 236 to 240). I would appreciate very much if you could clarify a few things:

You introduced Markov chains giving examples of finite discrete states and transitioning between them (e.g. the grid on the 7th slide).  I'm a bit confused about the "pebbles on the beach" example in the "pebbles, metropolis, needles" presentation. Are the points (x, y) on the 2-dimensional plane supposed to correspond to states?  If so then the approximation of pi would have involved an infinite number of states because there is an infinity of real numbers between 0 and 2a. Are Markov chains about discrete, finite states or is it more flexible in that any number of states are allowed? How does the "pebbles on the beach" example relate to Markov Chains?

The metropolis algorithm as outlined on the 6th slide of "pebbles, metropolis, needles" tells us to what extent our approximation of the SSP for state s_n is correct. It doesn't seem to tell you how to adjust the estimation. How would I use the information generated by the algorithm to get a new, better approximation? 

On the 5th slide of "pebbles, metropolis, needles" you tell us that the pi symbol with the subscript of "i" denotes the steady state probability (SSP) of the system being in state "i". On the slide that follows, you say "[...] we want that the SSP to be in state I is given by a particular value πi [...]". Please correct me if I'm wrong but if we perform the substitution we get: "[...] we want that the SSP to be in state i is given by a particular value of the SSP to be in state i [...]".  That seems to be circular. Could you please clarify this?

I'm also not sure what the pi symbol on the 6th slide means. It appears to be used as a function (π(b) and π(a)). I would appreciate if you could clarify: is π(b) the estimated probability of being in state b? The notation is different from the SSP notation which would have "a" and "b" as subscripts. Did you choose this notation because those probabilities have not yet stabilised (i.e. will change) so it's not the same as SSP?  

Please correct me if I'm wrong but the method described in the book is for computing the SSP for being in a state given the set of transition probabilities. On the other hand, in the lectures you showed us how to reach the transition probabilities from the desired SSP for some state. I'm not certain if I read the right bit or if I've read enough. 

I look forward to your reply.

Kind regards,
Norbert Logiewa
